


Charles C. Stevenson
Bioinformatics Homework0
1/10/2017

CRISPR = Clustered Regularly Inter-Spaced Palindromic Repeats
CAS = CRISPR Associated Sequences

1) Summarize the experiment and the results

  #Experiment
  The researchers in this article evaluate bacterial and archeal genomes to evalute
  the existence of CRISPR genes, similarities between CRISPR sequences, existence of
  CAS sequences, similarities between CAS sequences, and similarities between CRISPR
  sequences and CAS subtypes, as well as the stability of and CRIPR's transcribed RNA,
  that is, crRNA.

  #Results
  The researchers identified CRISPR genes in over 195 organisms. They found that CRISPR's
  are related to CAS genes based on the stability of RNA structures, which is mirrored
  by the diversity CRISPR's sequences. They found thirteen clusters in a trimodal relationship,
  that is, high stability, medium stability, and low stability.


2) Explain how they performed their analysis

  -Found the existence of CRISPR sequences with PILER-CR
  -Evaluated the similarity with the Smith-Waterman Algorithm
  -Clustered with the MCL algorithm
  -Evaluated RNA stability with regards to its secondary structure with RNAFold software

3) Explain how their analysis bridges multiple types of biological information

  The researchers evaluated the sequences at the DNA level to mine for CRISPR && CAS sequences.
  They then compared the sequences with eachother by clustering. What was trying to be seen
  was how different CRIPSR and CAS subtypes were related and how these different sequences
  affected the respective stability of their RNA.

4) Do you agree and how might follow-up experiments be conducted?

  I agree with their findings, although it was surprising that sometimes CRISPR sequences could be related
  stronger in further phylogenic related species then with closer relatives, the clustering data illustrates that
  CAS and CRIPR sequences are related in some conservative manner. That is, similar CRISPR sequences
  express similar CAS subtypes, which is backed up by analysis of their the stability of their respective RNA secondary
  structures. Possible experiments going forward would be to analyze virus RNA to see propective binding sites for CAS
  or CRISPR genes, or for binding sites between CAS sequences and CRISPR's RNA structure.
